hello everyone my name is Alex I'm one
of the expert Isles teachers here at a
two language comm and welcome to your
eetu task of the week today we're gonna
work on IELTS reading and I'm gonna
share with you three essential
strategies that you need to know to do
well in IELTS reading let's get started
in this class I'll show you the three
IELTS reading strategies and we're gonna
do a whole heap of practice with a
little bit of match headings and just
know not given because I know everybody
struggles with those now the first
strategy I want to mention it's probably
something you're familiar with and that
you've heard a lot about it is skimming
what is skimming when you're skimming a
text you're trying to answer two
questions what is the text about and how
is the text organized the keyword
skimming is to do it efficiently and
there are really two different ways to
skim I'm going to show you both of them
but it's up to you to choose which one
works best for you now basically this
one involves looking at a text really
quickly without reading too slowly or
too in-depth and you're just trying to
find out what's the text about how the
text organized I'm going to show you two
big pages of text and cover the writing
as you read so you have to go quickly
are you ready let's begin start skimming
you
here's the next page
so that was one minute how did you go
what words did you notice and did you
see how the text was organized maybe you
saw words like GM genetic modification
EU farming crops health environment did
it help you let me show you the other
way to skim and see if it's more useful
the second way to skim is by just
looking at the introduction and then the
first sentence of each paragraph so we
call the first sentence the topic
sentence you would know that from your
writing so we're gonna look at the same
text now just the introduction and the
first sentence of each paragraph and
we'll read it together see if this helps
you anymore can you see what the text is
about and can you see how its organized
let's read my parents research
malnutrition and under nutrition in
India especially among children and
found that many diets recommended by
Western nutritionists were in fact
completely inapplicable to the poor so
they formulated cheap healthy diets
based on indigenous foods which people
were familiar with which people were
familiar yet despite their many other
efforts a quarter of people in India and
nearly one in nine people around the
world did not have enough to live a
healthy active life then we get into the
topic sentences the world World Bank
estimates that we will need to produce
about 50% more food by 2050 to feed a
population of nine billion people just
as new agricultural techniques and
equipment spurred on food production in
the Middle Ages and scientific crop
breeding fertilizers and pesticides did
so for the Green Revolution of the 20th
century so we must rely on the latest
technology to boost food production
further and see the writers opinion
their views on GM differ across the
world there are outstanding plant
scientists who work on GM in the UK but
Scottish wealth Northern Irish
governments have declared their
opposition to GM plants about 15 years
ago and GM was
merging its main proponents and many of
the initial products were from large
multinational corporations even though
it was publicly funded scientists who
produced most of the initial research by
the way if you're doing this in the
reading test you would be going about
that fast but using your pen or if
you're on the computer might be
scribbling some notes down and thinking
about the type of text that you're
dealing with so are you looking at
something which is balancing both views
two opposing views are you looking at a
strong opinion piece are you looking at
a historical account going from the past
closer to the present all of those
questions you should be sort of asking
yourself and thinking about while you're
reading because eventually of course
you've got questions to deal with next
topic sentence the debate became
polarized and any sense that the
evidence could be rationally assessed
evaporated I'm going to show you the
next screen here but I won't read the
text out I'll give you time to do that
on your own
you
so how did you go this time do you know
what the text is about do you know how
its organized can you see the writer's
opinion if you now had a bunch of
questions would you know where to look
for each question so for example if they
asked you about the health impact or
they might ask you about a particular
country would you be able to find that
based on your skimming now maybe you
found both methods not that helpful
that's just a matter of practice but
hopefully either the first method or the
second method works for you and that is
the starting point in IELTS reading not
always but often you'll skim the text
first now this brings us to the next
strategy scanning again a word that
you've probably heard all the time now
the question that you're dealing with
when you're scanning is where is it when
you're scanning you're actually not
reading you're just looking think of
yourself like a hunter so you've read a
a question an IELTS yes no not given
question you've got a keyword maybe it's
somebody's name maybe it's a date and
you're just looking through the text
trying to find it and if you start
reading that's a waste of time so
scanning just means looking or hunting
so you're basically doing this moving
your eye up and down around the page
looking for a particular piece of
information if you've got a good keyword
like a proper noun or a date then this
is obviously much easier if you're
looking for a synonym or an idea this
can take a little bit longer let's have
a practice I'm gonna give you a word at
the top in the blue section and I want
you to find it as fast as you can this
is the word I want you to find Canada so
scan for Canada as fast as you can here
we go
have you got it it's in the middle
column almost in the middle of the page
here it is let's do another one this
time I want you to scan for the word
herbicides go
it's in the third column middle
paragraph there it is
so scanning is pretty fun but it's also
an essential skill when you need to find
a section quickly but once you find that
section that's not the end of the story
because then it's the third strategy and
in IELTS reading this third strategy is
actually the most important one and you
are required to use it the most often it
is careful reading you can think of this
like slow down so we've got skimming
scanning and slow down careful reading
it's pretty obvious what it is right it
means that you've got to read the text
at the pace that allows you to
understand what you're reading so it's
not just reading slowly you're reading
efficiently so here is where you need to
think about reading for understanding
and breaking those bad habits of
returning to the start of a sentence or
returning to the start of a paragraph
when you finish it's a very normal thing
to do I do it all the time but in a
language test there is no time for that
kind of lazy reading so careful reading
is efficient reading let's look at one
paragraph and three headings and work on
our careful reading when we do headings
maths we always start with the paragraph
rather than the heading so let's read it
together
gM involves the introduction of very
specific genes into plants in many ways
this is much more controlled than the
random mutations that are selected for
in traditional plant breeding most of
the commonly grown crops that we
consider natural actually bear little
resemblance to their wild ancestors
having been selectively modified through
crossbreeding over the thousands of
years that humans have been farming
crops in this sense this is a form of
genetic modification itself so then
we've got out there
headings modification is nothing new
benefits of crossbreeding
and history of farming now I saw the
word crossbreeding I saw something about
the history of farming but this
paragraph is all about number one
modification is nothing new if I had
been reading too quickly or just
skimming or just scanning I probably
would have chosen the wrong answer then
so I was reading at a pace that allows
me to understand and when I'm reading
I'm also reading quite dramatically in
my head my voice is going up and down
I'm emphasizing certain words that is
careful reading let's do another one
this time I'll leave it to you feel free
to pause if you need a little bit longer
I'll show you another paragraph and
another three headings read carefully
you
if you are reading carefully you would
know that treating diabetes was
mentioned but it's not the focus of the
whole paragraph same with number two
cancer was mentioned but it's not the
main idea of this paragraph it's not a
good heading number three is the best
heading GM's role in healthcare so now
let's put it all together I'm gonna give
you a few paragraphs from that text and
for yes no not given questions remember
that your snow not given questions are
asking you about the writer's opinion so
you'll need to probably skim first then
scan for keywords then slow down and
read carefully over to you pause the
recording for two minutes now
are you feeling confident with your
answers let's have a look together let's
start with question one we've got a
really good scanning word here with a
capital letter so Western diets
unsuitable poor people you can find this
in the first paragraph Western
nutritionists in applicable and poor so
in the real test you'd slow down and
read this section really carefully let's
do it my parents researched malnutrition
and under nutrition in India especially
among children and found that many diets
recommended by Western nutritionists
were in fact completely inapplicable to
the poor so they formulated bla bla bla
question is some diet some Western diets
were found to be unsuitable for poor
people does the text say the same thing
many diets recommended by Western
nutritionists were completely
inapplicable to the poor some Western
diets were unsuitable for poor people
this is the same thing so this is yes
how about number two again we've got a
good scanning word here US US corn
production has risen considerably in the
past half century over here in the text
past half century past fifty years
soar which is rise considerably corn and
us we're in the right spot here so we
would slow down and read around the
world Bank estimates that we will need
to produce about 50 percent more food by
2050 to feed a population of nine
billion people and the past 50 years
have seen agricultural productivity saw
corn yields in the US have doubled for
examples this is the key part corn
yields in the US have doubled US corn
production has risen considerably yes
double is rising considerably in the
past half century the past 50 years so
again this is yes it's saying the same
thing as the text number three you know
pesticides led to a reduction in food
production during the 20th century so
good scan word pesticide 20th century
a good one and we're looking for
information about pesticides reduction
food production
so pesticides appears once over here but
it's not near the other words that we
need so see it again here and twentieth
century this is the section that we
would slow down to read let's do it
just as new agricultural techniques and
equipment spurred on food production
this means encouraged or boosted spurred
on food production in the Middle Ages
and scientific crop breeding fertilizers
and pesticides did so for the Green
Revolution of the 20th century so we
must rely on the latest technology to
boost food production further ok is this
saying the same thing pesticides led to
a reduction in food production during
the 20th century so I know that
pesticides did so as in they spurred on
food production they boosted or
increased food production so pesticides
led to a reduction this is saying the
opposite thing contradiction this is no
they led to a boost in food production
it's a finally question for globally
half of all crops grown are GM key word
here globally half GM and we're looking
here in the final section the final
paragraph we've got views on GM differ
across the world almost half you go
almost half of all crops grown in the US
so this is not globally this is the US
GM whereas widespread opposition in
Europe means virtually no GM crops are
grown there in Canada regulation is
focused on then I speed up a little bit
can I see anything about worldwide
globally GM is merely a technology so
once I've read all of this I can see
actually there's no information about
how much of global crops are GM so
there's no way for me to know this
information which means it's not given
so here we have it yes yes no and no
given so hopefully you found those
strategies useful let's just review them
one more time in your test you should
skim for the overall idea and structure
scan when you're looking for specific
information and then slow down and read
carefully you can employ these
techniques when you're just reading for
fun as well
websites like National Geographic New
Scientist and the conversation where
this article comes from are great places
to work on your reading skills for more
IELTS preparation join us on into
language comm we're 100 percent online
you can submit your work for writing and
speaking feedback you can come along to
our live group classes and work with me
and our other language experts and you
can book a one-on-one tutorial to work
with your teacher in person
our teachers are all over the world so
you can always find a time that suits
you and our course of course is online
so you can practice as much as you want
wherever you want and whenever you want
I'll see you soon on e to language comm
bye
[Music]